# 1. Basic Ops
Created Friday 05 June 2020


* We are learning a programming language, called Octave.
* Professor Ng has tried to teach ML using C++, Java, Python, NumPy, R and Octave.
* He's observed that Octave is the the best for learning ML.
* In Silicon Valley, even if people want to build a large system using ML, they first **prototype** the design in Octave. Once they are satisfied that the idea works, then they implement the same prototype using C++, Java, Python etc .
* Programmer time/Developer time is incredibly valuable. So this method saves a lot of time.


*****

Most used prototyping languages are Octave, MATLAB, NumPy, R.

* Octave and MATLAB are both okay, but MATLB is expensive.

We'll be using octave here.

*****


* We can chain statements using commas.
* clear A; # clears A from the workspace, for clearing everything, write clear all;
* clc; clears the command window. Ctrl  + L does the same
* quit or exit, closes octave.


*****

A) **Arithmetic**:

1. ASMD, augmented assignments are allowed.
2. Remainder using **rem(**a,b**)** in GUI and a**%**b in CLI
3. Change the prompt using PS1('ne_prompt_in_quotes'), e.g PS1('>>')
4. power is ** or ^, equivalent.
5. Assignment **=**


*****

B) **Printing**

1. % is a comment. 
2. disp(arg) is  the way to print things.
3. disp(sprintf('%total.after**f**', arg)) prints the decimal as per the requirement.

	disp(sprintf('%05.2f', pi)) # 03.14


3. format long and format short specify the precision of the workspace. 
4. pi is 3.1416, it is re-assignable.


*****

C) Vectors and matrices

1. All vectors and matrices are enclosed using []
2. Octave follows row-major form.
3. Values in a row are separated by space.
4. Rows are separated by semicolon.

	i = [1 0 0; 0 1 0; 0 0 1;] #a 3x3 idenitity matrix
	i = [1 0 0; 0 1 0; 0 0 1] # omitting the last semicolon is OK
	# we can also press enter after the semicolon to give rows line by line
	>> j = [1 0 0;
	> 0 1 0;
	> 0 0 1]


5. eye(a, b=a) - returns an identity matrix of order a x a. If b!=a the gives a part of the identity matrix.
6. ones(a, b=a) - gives a matrix of all 1's
7. zeros(a, b=a) - gives a matrix of all 0's
8. rand(a,b=a) - gives a axb matrix of values between 0 to 1. Drawn uniformly.
9. randn(a,b=a) - axb matrix of values from a Gaussian distribution, i.e  whose **mean=0 **and S.D(sigma)  = 1


*****

Ranges:
Syntax: start: step: end

1. Returns a row matrix starting from 'start', ending at 'end', increasing by step in each step. Inclusive.

	v = 1:0.1:2
	# v = [1.000 to 2.000] 11 things


*****

Misc:

1. hist(vector) - plots a histogram.
2. **help topic**; displays help for the topic.
3. size(matrix) - returns a row vector with the dimensions(order) of matrix A.
4. length(A) - returns the longest dimension of matrix A. same as max(size(A)) - Its meant for vectors, not matrices in general.


