# 2. Data Handling
Created Friday 05 June 2020

How to save, load and move data around?
For octave the default directory is the installation folder.

1. cd - change directory
2. pwd - print working directory
3. ls - list contents of the current directory
4. who - shows the current variables.
5. whos - shows a detailed table of current variable.



*****

**Loading and saving**:

1. load file.mat or equivalently load('file.mat'), this loads all the variables inside file.mat.

	load file_name.ext #loads the variable stored in file_name.ext
	

2. Save data: Saves a single variable in a single file.

	save new_file_name.mat source_variable # saved in binary format
	save new_file_name.txt source_variable -ascii # saved as human readable - takes more space
	

*****

Moving data around, splicing, accessing:

0. counting starts from 1, ranges are inclusive.
1. A(a,b) **accesses** the element in a^th^ row and b^th ^column. 
2. A(x) accesses the x'th element in LRTD order.
3. A(a,:) or A(:, b) returns a **read/write** row vector or column vector, respectively. Used for row, column assignment. **MAID: **Specify only what's required.
4. A(a:b)  - makes a row vector of all the things from ath to bth element, iterating in LRTD fashion. If a and b are both unspecified we get the whole matrix vector.
5. **Appending** a row/column
	1. Column, A = [A [100; 101; 102]]; # appends the column 100, 101 and 102 to A.
	2. Row, A = [A; [100 101 102]]; # appends the row, 100, 101 and 102 below A.
6. **Splicing** a matrix:
7. Given A = [1 2 3; 4 5 6; 7 8 9], we want to remove the row [7 8 9]. i.e We want all columns for rows 1 and 2 only.
	1. We can provide a rang

A = A(1:2, 2)

2. We can give the elements we require:  A([1 2], 2) = same as A([1;2], 2)

*Note: For a  selection vector, row or column is meaningless as range is interpreted LRTD, i.e [1;2] is equivalent to [1 2]. *

3. We can mix a and b, suppose our matrix is a 4 x 4 such that a~ij~=i+j

Note: Space and Comma are the same in case of appending. Commas are required only when we're using : (wild-card)

*****

There's no point memorising the commands.

