# 3. Computing on data
Created Friday 05 June 2020


1. Matrix Multiplication, Addition and subtraction - A op B, same for scalars.
2. Matrix Element multiplication - A.*B, corresponding elements are multiplied. **Period is used for element wise ops. ***Syntax*:** Period before the operation. ***It is not an in-place operation.*
	1. Element Exponentiation: A.^n
	2. Element wise reciprocal: 1./A

Note that the period(element wise) is not pre or post specific, i.e we can use .before the matrix too. 1./A 

3. Logarithm: log(arg) - base e. log10(arg).
4. Exponentiation - exp(A), does the exponentiation of all values.
5. Transpose - single quote (A')
6. max(A, DIM=1), min(A, DIM=1). For a matrix, does it column wise. i.e returns a row vector always. Returns an **int** for vectors, coz 1 x 1 are simply values. For max from all elements do max(A(:)))
7. For row-wise max, min etc, do max(A,[], 2) - where 2 specifies the second dimensions, i.e rows.  For sum and prod the empty [] is not required.
8. abs(), floor(), ceil() - does it element wise.
9. Comparison: ~=,  >, <, ... for all of these - element wise comparison is done. 1 and 0 are returned.
10. find(condition) - returns an LRTD position vector of all the values which satisfy the condition.
11. magic(a) - return a magic matrix of order a x a. Magic matrices are the ones whose row, column and diagonal sum are all equal. A 2x2 magic diagonal is impossible. We can use it to get random.
12. flipud(A) - returns a water image of A.
13. pinv(A)  - returns the pseudo inverse of A, 
14. mean(), std() returns the mean and standard deviation(about the mean) of a vector. For a matrix argument, does it for each column. Do mean(A, 2) for row-wise mean.


