# 1. Welcome
Created Monday 16 March 2020


* Google algo has learned to rank webpages.
* AI helped us to do many exiting things, and not just the boring(but useful) stuff like shortest path from A to B. e.g email spam filtering, classifiers etc.
* There was a **realization** that these tasks were possible only if a machine was made to learn by itself, and not **by explicit **programming. We could not practically code these type of tasks.


*****


1. ML grew from AI research. It is a subfield of AI.
2. ML was developed as a new capability for computers.


*****


* The range of subjects range from basic science, industry, aviation, to computational biology. The impact is **huge.**



* ML is practical now because we have a significant amount of relevant data and powerful computers.

**Database Mining**

1. Websites collect clickstream data to mine useful insights. That's a huge industry. We can mine 'demands' to stay ahead.
2. Medical records can be used to make medical information, which helps us to make better medicines.
3. Computational Biology is helping to collect information about the human genome, which help us understand what it means to be human.


**Applications we just cannot program by hand**

4. Autonomous vehicle - i.e controls itself when given a goal, e.g a helicopter, CV and NLP. We just don't know how to write it by ourselves. The only thing which worked was to make the helicopter learn to fly by itself. This is an **important observation**.
5. Handwriting recognition - In a physical postal service, ML can be used to generate address text for the mail, by recognising the handwriting. This saves us a lot of time and makes postal service very cheap. Saves human labour.
6. Today, most of CV and NLP are actually ML algorithms.


**Self customizing**

7. We need our app to behave in a personalized way. This is impossible explicitly, as the number of users and their choices is totally unknown. Only **learning **can help solve this problem, i.e a computer program learns and adapts to the users choices.



* ML is being used to understand/study human learning and the brain itself. 


*****


* Top desirable skills for IT industry is ML.
* The number of recruiter asking for ML is greater than the students in ML. So it is the a great time to learn this. This is the future, inshaAllah.


